---
layout: post
categories:
  - thesis
---

I've tried working with ArUco in ROS, but for some reason I don't get a correct position back.

Sometimes a marker's `Tvec` is approximately `[0, 0, 0]`, sometimes to enormous values (~ &plusmn;1e15, z seems fixed to 9007199254740992.0).

Things that might be a problem:

- Extrinsic values are not computed for the markers at all.
  - **Test:** Read source code for `aruco::Marker` and `aruco::MarkerDetector`. 
  - **Result:** To compute the extrinsic pose of the marker, `aruco::Marker::calculateExtrinsics` should be called.  This is done in `aruco::MarkerDetector::detect` iff the camera matrix (either passed directly, or through a `aruco::CameraParameters` object) is set.  This is done correctly.
- Camera does not know its parameters
  - **Tests:** Inspect camera's parameters from the ROS topic `/c920/camera_info`
  - **Result:** parameters are the same as in the file `~/.ros/camera_info/c920.yaml`
- ArUco does not know the (right) camera parameters.
  - **Test:** Print out the `ArucoDetector::camera_parameters_`'s fields.
  - **Result:**  ArUco got the wrong values.  I read in a `cv::Mat` of `double` values with `CV_32F`.  However, those are `float`s.  For `double`s, [use `CV_64F`](http://docs.opencv.org/modules/core/doc/intro.html#fixed-pixel-types-limited-use-of-templates).  Still wrong position, while both parameter sets are the same.
- `aruco::Marker::Tvec` is not set correctly.
  - **Test:** Print out `Tvec`.
  - **Result:** It's similar to the values that are output by ROS (minus the +/- transforms of `aruco::Marker::OgreGetPoseParameters`). No errors in converting from ArUco to to ROS.

Error resides somewhere in ArUco/parameter part, but not sure where!  I will need help of Toby next meeting.
