---
layout: post
categories:
  - thesis
---

Yesterday's problem is solved (hopefully). Also, nice overview on [coordinate representation](http://paulfurgale.info/news/2014/6/9/representing-robot-pose-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly).

To understand the "implicit correspondence measurement model" better in [Bleser et al.](#bleser2008advanced), Arnoud provided me with an article of [Hol et al.](#hol2005model)

Later it seemed that I was confused about the equation itself as well.  I will reproduce the equation again, together with all dimensions as superscripts:

$$
\begin{bmatrix}I_2^{2 \times 2} & - \mathbf{m}_{n,t}^{2 \times 1} \end{bmatrix}^{2 \times 3} 
Q_{cs}^{3 \times 3}(Q_{sw,t}^{3 \times 3}(\mathbf{m}_{w,t}^{3 \times 1} - \mathbf{s}_{w,t}^{3 \times 1}) - \mathbf{c}_s^{3 \times 1})
$$

At first, I interpreted the square brackets as "normal" brackets, but just to read it easier.  They were meant to create a matrix out of the identity matrix $$I_2$$ and a feature detected in an image $$\mathbf{m}_{n,t}$$.  It could not be a substraction (because that would make it an operation between matrices/vectors of size $$2 \times 2$$ and $$2 \times 1$$).

Bleser hinted at this in [her Ph.D. thesis](#bleser2009towards) by hinting that $$\mathbf{0}$$ is a 2D vector, by giving it the subscript "$$_2$$".  She notes in section 3.4.1.1, p.59:

> Note that this expression is obtained from the homogeneous collinearity constraint (2.7b) by inserting the hand-eye transformation (2.12).

For completeness a reproduction of (2.7b):

> $$
> \mathbf{0}_2 = d_h(\mathbf{m}_n, \mathbf{m}_w, \mathbf{s}) = z_c \begin{bmatrix}x_n \\ y_n \end{bmatrix} - \begin{bmatrix}x_c \\ y_c \end{bmatrix} = \begin{bmatrix}-\mathbf{I}_2 & \mathbf{m}_n \end{bmatrix} \mathcal{T}(\mathbf{m}_w, \mathbf{s})
> $$

with:

* > $$\mathbf{s}$$ denotes an appropriate parametrisation of the camera pose (_cf._ Section 2.1.1.4).
* On p.14:

  > $$\mathcal{T}(\mathbf{m}_w)$$ denotes the mapping from the world to the camera frame given in (2.4a) and (2.4b)

(2.12) refer to simple rotations and translations.

{% include bibliography.html keys="hol2005model,bleser2008advanced,bleser2009towards" %}
