---
layout: post
categories:
  - thesis
---
Understanding of ROS has increased! Some ROS tools I learnt to use, and notes on them.

I moved my files around.  Everything ROS-related is located in `~/ros/`, with a bash function `ros` to source the ROS shell scripts.  I could not place Kalibr under `~/ros/src/` (catkin gave errors), so I put it in `~/ros/repos/`.  However, due to hardcoded file names, I have to rebuild Kalibr (~3 hrs, I also got a Python `ImportError` for module `sm`).

---

Nice ROS tools to remember:

  - `rosrun rqt_console rqt_console` for message viewing.  You can also filter messages.
  - `rosrun rqt_gui rqt_gui` for data visualization.  If you want to visualize a topic that does not give "a green plus", look for the sub-topic.  For instance, Visualization/Plot does not allow you to add `/imu/data` but you *are* allowed to add `/imu/data/linear_acceleration` and `/imu/data/angle_velocity`.  Avoid `rosrun image_view image_view`, as it is buggy; use RQT's Image View.
  - `rostopic list` lists all topics (`-v` gives you the message types), and `rostopic echo TOPICNAME` streams its contents to the terminal.
  - `rosnode cleanup` cleans up inactive nodes (or node handlers) and removes their topics.
  - `rosed PACKAGE FILENAME` lets you edit a file from a package, without `cd`'in to it.
  - `roslaunch personal_sandbox imu_and_cameras.launch` is my launch file to start publishing the data of the IMU (using a Xsens MTi with `xsens_driver`), my laptop camera and an external Logitech C910 (both using `uvc_camera`).

I also tried to use RViz through `rosrun rviz rviz`, but that gives an error: 

```bash
$ rosrun rviz rviz 
/opt/ros/indigo/lib/rviz/rviz: error while loading shared libraries: libboost_thread.so.1.53.0: cannot open shared object file: No such file or directory
```

After googling, I found out that this means that I should install `libboost_thread` version 1.53, instead of 1.54...  I'm happy enough with `rqt_gui`.

---

While the ROS documentation states that [camera_calibration](http://wiki.ros.org/camera_calibration?distro=indigo) should be started as `rosrun camera_calibration cameracalibrator.py ARGUMENTS`, I could only start it as `cameracalibrator.py ARGUMENTS` after sourcing ROS's shell script.  When calibrated, copy the output to `~/.ros/camera_config/CAMERA_NAME.ini` and convert it to YAML with `rosrun camera_calibration_parsers convert CAMERA_NAME.ini CAMERA_NAME.yaml`.

--- 

I am not sure if I made the right camera settings file for Kalibr to calibrate the camera with the IMU.  I have not set `T_cam_imu` and `timeshift_cam_imu`, as I want to discover these (whole point of calibration).

Command to execute next time (after Kalibr compilation): 

```bash
ros
rosrun kalibr kalibr_calibrate_imu_camera --time-calibration --bag bags/2014-09-03_calibration_MTi_Logitech.bag --cam repos/kalibr/config/camera/logitech.yaml --imu repos/kalibr/config/imu/MTx.yaml --target repos/kalibr/config/calibration_target/checkerboard.yaml
```
