---
layout: post
categories:
  - thesis
---

Struggling with implementation of the Extended Kalman Filters of Bleser et al.

[Bleser et al.](#bleser2008advanced) describe a set of Extended Kalman Filters which fuse the data of the camera and IMU.  One part of their first model I don't completely understand.  It is near the end of section 4.2:

> The image analysis initially provides a set of 2D/3D corespondences $$(\mathbf{m}_{p,t}, \mathbf{m}_{w,t})$$ with measurement noises $$\mathbf{e}^c_{p,t} \sim \cal{N}(\mathbf{0}, R_{pp,t})$$ and $$\mathbf{e}^c_{w,t} \sim \cal{N}(\mathbf{0}, R_{ww,t})$$, where $$R_{pp,t}$$ and $$R_{ww,t}$$ are diagonal matrices.  The measurement $$\mathbf{m}_{p,t}$$ and the covariance $$R_{pp,t}$$ are first transformed to the normalised image coordinate system using (6), giving $$\mathbf{c}_t = (\mathbf{m}_{n,t}, \mathbf{m}_{w,t})$$ with covariances $$R_{nn,t}$$ and $$R_{ww,t}$$.  The implicit correspondence measurement model is then given by
> $$
> \begin{align*}
> \mathbf{0} &= h(\mathbf{x}_t, \mathbf{m}_{n,t}, \mathbf{m}_{w,t}, \mathbf{e}^c_{n,t}, \mathbf{e}^c_{w,t}) \\
>            &= [I_2 - (\mathbf{m}_{n,t} + \mathbf{e}^c_{n,t})] Q_{cs} (Q_{sw,t} (\mathbf{m}_{w,t} + \mathbf{e}^c_{w,t} - \mathbf{s}_{w,t}) - \mathbf{c}_{s}).
> \label{x}
> \end{align*}
> (12a)
> $$
> This can be reformulated with additive measurement noise $$\mathbf{e}^c_t$$ using (5a) and (5g):
> $$
> \begin{align*}
> \mathbf{0} &= h(\mathbf{x}_t, \mathbf{m}_{n,t}, \mathbf{m}_{w,t}) + \mathbf{e}^c_t \\
>            &= [I_2 - \mathbf{m}_{n,t}] Q_{cs} (Q_{sw,t} (\mathbf{m}_{w,t} - \mathbf{s}_{w,t}) - \mathbf{c}_{s}) + \mathbf{e}^c_t,
> \end{align*}
> (12b)
> $$
> where $$\mathbf{e}^c_t \sim \mathcal{N}(\mathbf{0}, R_t)$$ and with $$\mathbf{h}_t = h(\mathbf{x}_t, \mathbf{m}_{n,t}, \mathbf{m}_{w,t}, \mathbf{e}^c_{n,t}, \mathbf{e}^c_{w,t})$$
> $$
> R_t  \approx \begin{bmatrix} \frac{\partial \mathbf{h}_t}{\partial \mathbf{m}_{n,t}} & \frac{\partial \mathbf{h}_t}{\partial \mathbf{m}_{w,t}} \end{bmatrix}
>              \begin{bmatrix} R_{nn,t}       & 0_{2 \times 3} \\ 
>                            0_{3 \times 2} & R_{ww,t}       \end{bmatrix}
>              \begin{bmatrix} \frac{\partial \mathbf{h}_t}{\partial \mathbf{m}_{n,t}} \\ 
>                            \frac{\partial \mathbf{h}_t}{\partial \mathbf{m}_{w,t}} \end{bmatrix} . (12c)$$
> 
> $$\mathbf{q}_{cs}$$ and $$\mathbf{c}_s$$ are as in (8).  The correspondences are all processed sequentially.

It is unknown what is $$I_2$$ (identity matrix of $$2 \times 2$$ or as defined on p 61:

> Let $$\mathbf{m}_p = \begin{bmatrix}x, y\end{bmatrix}^T$$ be a feature position in an image. Let $$I(\mathbf{m}_p)$$ be the intensity value of this position in the rendering and $$J(\mathbf{m}_p)$$ the intensity value in the live camera image.

I also do not know how to express that constraint within an EKF implementation.

{% include bibliography.html keys="bleser2008advanced" %}
