---
layout: post
categories:
  - thesis
---

Together with Arnoud, I decided on a clearer, more up-to-date topic for my thesis.  Also, an investigation on available datasets for this topic.


## Motivation for pre-made datasets
During last week's meeting with Arnoud, we decided to renew the thesis topic.  I will investigate the merging of [Visual-Inertial ORB-SLAM](#murartal2017visual) into [ORB-SLAM2](#murartal2017orbslam2).  One of the interesting things to see here is whether ORB-SLAM2 will increase in its accuracy.  To test my models, I want to use a dataset.  This is more preferrable for multiple reasons:
1.  Setting up synchronized sensors can be time-consuming.
2.  Extrinsic calibration is error-prone, and has to be done precisely.
3.  Designing a path through a large state space that provides a robust test for the system is hard, and can be publication-worthy on its own (see links below).
4.  For these physics-driven experiments, a lot of real-world noise parameters (for example: motion blur, IMU noise) are not implemented or only in a very simplified way.
5.  Above points only distract from the topic I try to investigate.

## Overview of used datasets
Mur-Artal and Tardós have used several datasets in their paper series.  This is an investigation of the usability of those datasets for my setting.

Datasets per paper:
- [ORB-SLAM](#murartal2015orbslam):
    - "the large robot sequence of [NewCollege](#smith2009newcollege)" ([site](http://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/NewCollegeData/)),
    - "16 hand-held sequences of the [TUM RGB-D benchmark](#sturm2012benchmark)" ([site](https://vision.in.tum.de/data/datasets/rgbd-dataset)),
    - and "10 car outdoor sequences from the [KITTI dataset](#geiger2013kitti)" ([site](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/))

- [Visual-Inertial ORB-SLAM](#murartal2017visual):
    - the "11 sequences recorded from a micro aerial vehicle (MAV), flying around two different rooms and an industrial environment" in the [EuRoC dataset](#burri2016euroc) ([site](https://projects.asl.ethz.ch/datasets/doku.php?id=kmavvisualinertialdatasets))

- [ORB-SLAM2](#murartal2017orbslam2):
    - [KITTI dataset](#geiger2013kitti)'s closed loop sequences: 00, 02, 05, 06, 07 and 09.
    - [EuRoC dataset](#burri2016euroc)
    - [TUM RGB-D benchmark](#sturm2012benchmark)


## Technical review of datasets
Requirements of a dataset for my experiments are:
- At least 1 RGB-D source, or at least 2 synchronized grayscale/RGB cameras:
  - Does the system have a global or rolling shutter?
  - When multicamera setup: relative position.
- At least 1 source of acceleration and angular velocity:
  - Timestamps are synchronized with cameras.
  - Extrinsic calibration to cameras is preferred.
  - The update frequency should be at least 2×, preferrably 10× higher than that of the cameras.
- Ground truth information should include information about:
  - position
  - orientation
  - linear velocity
  - angular velocity
  - acceleration
  - Error models over these measurements

Later a review will be added to **this** file.

{% include bibliography.html keys="murartal2015orbslam,murartal2017visual,murartal2017orbslam2,smith2009newcollege,sturm2012benchmark,geiger2013kitti,burri2016euroc" %}
